#summary an overview of all settings available for the config file
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Settings =

This page gives an overview of the different settings available in the configuration file of a server application with an explanation how to use them.
Most of the settings described here have a static string in the [http://smart-objects-system.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/SOSGeneric/doc/main/Settings.html Settings] class, so they can be referred to easily.

== Application ==

These settings are mainly used to display information in the header of the interface.

*_application_name_* = (string)

The name of the application.

*_application_name_abbreviation_* = (string)

The abbreviation of the application name.

*_application_version_* = (string)

The version of the application

*_application_icon_* = (string)

The icon of the application, placed in the directory set at the following _html_data_dir_ setting.

== Directory locations ==

*_html_data_dir_* = (string)

The directory where resources for the HTML interface can be found, like images and icons. May be relative or absolute.

== Server settings ==

*_xml_port_* = (int)

The port at which the server should listen for client connections, which use XML to exchange information.

*_xml_server_password_* = (string)

The password to be provided by a client to establish a connection.

*_http_port_* = (int)

The port at which the server should listen for HTTP connections, which is used as the user interface.

*_http_server_address_* = (string)

The address of the server, used when creating external links.

*_google_maps_v2_api_key_* = (string)

SOS uses the Google Maps v3 API by default to look up addresses. When this becomes unavailable for some reason (time-out, or limit of requests reached), it falls back to the v2 API, which requires an access key.

== Agent settings ==

*_pause_agent_execution_when_putting_agents_* = (boolean)

If set to true, agents will be paused from execution when agents are added or modified.

*_agent_problem_detection_enabled_* = (boolean)

Set to true to enable problem detection.

*_agent_problem_learning_enabled_* = (boolean)

Set to true to enable agent learning.

== Database setup ==

*_database_host_* = (string)

The host name of database server.

*_database_user_* = (string)

The database user name.

*_database_password_* = (string)

The database password associated with the database user name.

*_database_name_* = (string)

The name of the database.

== HTML interface ==

*_show_all_objects_* = (boolean)

Set to true if the 'all' menu item should be shown.

*_show_overview_lists_* = (boolean)

Set to true if the details pane should list overviews.

*_show_small_details_pane* = (boolean)

Set to true if the details pane should be smaller than default.

*_default_script_* = (string)

The default script/page to load.

*_default_clustering_* = (boolean)

Set to true to enable clustering of map markers by default.

*_keyword_deeplink_* = (string)

The keyword used to create a deep link to agents.

== Notification settings ==

*_notification_email_enabled_* = (boolean)

Set to true if the SOS server should send emails when agents change their status.

*_notification_email_threshold_* = (int)

A number in minutes, indicating the miminum amount of minutes between two notification emails.
 
*_notification_email_status_threshold_* = (int)

A number indicating the status threshold when sending notification emails, i.e. -3 means that only agents in the error status are included, -2 means that both agents in the error and warning status are included, etc.

*_notification_email_recipient_* = (string)

The email recipient of the notification email. Multiple email addresses can be provided by seperation with a comma. 

*_notification_email_content_* = (string)

The directory where resources for the HTML content of the notification email can be found, like images and icons. Must be absolute.

*_notification_email_allowed_types_* = (string)

The agent types which are included in the notification email. Multiple types can be provided by seperation with a comma.

== SMTP settings ==

*_smtp_email_address_* = (string)

The email address used for sending notification emails.

*_smtp_server_* = (string)

The SMTP server used for sending notification emails.

*_smtp_username_* = (string)

The username used for sending emails through the SMTP server.

*_smtp_password_* = (string)

The password used for sending emails through the SMTP server.