#summary an overview of important classes in SOS
#labels Phase-Design

=Important classes=
This page contains an overview of the most important classes used by the Smart Objects System software and an explanation of what they do.

==SOSServer==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.main.SOSServer_</font>

This abstract class is the starting point of the system. It reads the settings, starts the HTTP and XML listeners, adds the default agents and prepares several collection and storage objects which are used in the system. Also, an AgentsProcessor is created, which manages the execution of agents. Any implementing project has to extend this class, which has to be run in order to start the system.

==Settings==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.main.Settings_</font>

A proxy class which reads the settings from an .ini file through the use of a Properties object. Predefined setting names have been defined in this class as static strings.

==Agent==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.model.agent.Agent_</font>

An abstract class which acts as a base for all agents. An agent is constructed through its properties, for which the Agent class provides get and set methods. Different access levels are available through the use of interfaces and some common property names are defined as statics strings in the class. Methods for learning, execution and garbage collection are defined in this class. Additionally, generate methods are available which control the generation of the web interface. An implementing project will have to extend the Agent class to provide its application specific behaviour and interface generation.

==Property==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.model.agent.property.Property_</font>

A Property is a basic data structure which defines an agent. A number of property types have been defined, see the util.enums.PropertyType enum or model.agent.property.properties package for details.

==AgentCollection==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.model.agent.collection.AgentCollection_</font>

An instance of this class is used to retrieve agents from a storage. It implements two interfaces (one through the other) to provide different levels of access.

==AgentCollectionStorage==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.data.agents.AgentCollectionStorage_</font>

An implementation of this class provides the storage of a collection of agents. This inculdes some basic, much used properties of the agent. The default implementation uses a MySQL database.

==RemoteAgentCollection==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.util.clientconnection.RemoteAgentCollection_</font>

An extension of AgentCollection which uses XML communication with a running server to retrieve Agents. This class is used in client applications.

==AgentStorage==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.data.agents.AgentStorage_</font>

An implementation of this class provides the storage of individual agents and provides methods to manage and retrieve properties of those agents.

==LocationCollection==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.model.locations.LocationCollection_</font>

A collection of locations, uses a LocatonCollectionStorage to cache already known addresses and their geographical locations. It also has a remote counterpart, to be used in client applications.

==AgentProcessor==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.model.agent.execution.AgentProcessor_</font>

Manages the exection of each agent. It creates an AgentExecutor when an agent is executed, which handles the actual execution of the agent.

==HtmlGenerator==
<font size="1">_SOSGeneric.util.htmltool.HtmlGenerator_</font>

A base for the generation of HTML formatted pages, providing several methods to add elements to the HTML UI. This class is extended several times, to also generate JavaScript code for HTML pages.